Mystery Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain a science
fiction film called "The Mandela Effect".
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
That day, a game maker named Brendan, his wife,
Claire and their daughter named Sam, are on
vacation to a beach. The three of them enjoy being
together, full of happiness, jokes, and laughter.
While they are relaxing, Sam intends to look for
snails around the beach, and she promises not to
play in the water. Claire agrees on the condition
that Sam doesn't go too far from their sight.
When Sam is busy looking for snails, she doesn't
realize that the waves drag her curious George.
Sam tries to take the doll, but unfortunately,
she is dragged along by the waves.
Sam's death makes Brendan and claire feel very
sad. Claire tries to move on, but Brendan,
who loves his daughter very much couldn't just
let her go. While they are packing Sam's things,
Brendan accidentally sees a book titled "the
berenstain bear," he feels odd because he
clearly remembers that the book was previously
titled "the berenstein bear" with an "e",
instead of an "a." When they are sleeping,
suddenly a strange sound comes from the kitchen,
and it turns out to be matt, his brother-in-law,
who comes to look for food in the refrigerator.
Brendan then gives him some pizza, and he also
asks Matt about the book "the berenstain bear."
Matt replies that the book is titled "the
berenstein bear," with the letter "e".
But Brendan shows matt that the correct writing
is "the berenstain bear" with the letter a.
Out of curiosity, Brendan tries
to find it on the internet,
and it turns out that there are many people
who think that the writing in the book is
"the berenstein bear," with an e. Brendan
continues to look for information about it-
until he finally finds a theory that explains the
incident, namely the "mandela effect" theory.
The next day, Brendan is confused by the
photo of his family on the refrigerator.
He asks his wife where the photo was taken and
claire replies that it was taken in front of
the Griffith observatory, but Brendan is very
sure that they didn't take photos in that place,
instead, they took pictures at the pacific science
center in Seattle. His wife doesn't respond and
tells him to leave because she is busy cooking.
Brendan then goes to see matt and talks about
the Mandela effect theory. Brendan feels that he
is experiencing the Mandela effect phenomenon,
but matt denies and says that the phenomenon is
just false memory. But Brendan still believes in
his theory and believes that he now lives in a
parallel universe. Brendan continues to explore
these theories, and then he sees on the forum that
the Mandela effect is caused by an experiment with
a large hadron collider created by CERN. The
experiment is conducted in 2008 in Russia, and
at the same time, many people experienced strange
phenomena, one of which is the Mandela effect.
Brendan then tries to go to a priest named
Isaac, to find out about the existence of God.
But after listening to Isaac's words, Brendan
doesn't believe that God has created this world.
Seeing Brendan's strange behavior, Claire tries
to remind Brendan not to stick with past memories
with Sam. She wants Brendan to forget the past
and live a new life. He then asks his wife about
the picture of the guy in the monopoly. Claire
firmly believes that the guy's image in monopoly
is wearing a monocle on one side of his eye.
When she checks it, it turns out that the guy's
image is not using a monocle. Furthermore, Brendan
also points out that the monkey character "curious
George" doesn't actually have a tail. But the
Curious George doll that Sam had has a tail.
Brendan tries to explain that all of these relate
to the theory of the Mandela effect. Brendan feels
that Sam's death at that time is just another
parallel universe version that enters the current
world and then shifted the actual events.
But Claire is angry and disappointed with Brendan,
who only cares about himself with strange
theories, making them unable to move on.
Even so, Brendan remains convinced
that the Mandela effect exists.
Brendan then studies the theory deeper. He
discovers that the Mandela effect could occur
due to other parallel universes being mix
into the world he is currently living in.
Parallel universes themselves are numerous, and
each parallel universe contains another version
of the current life story. He feels most likely
Sam is still alive in another parallel universe.
In the end, he finds the name of a scientist named
dr Roland Fuchs, who also believes that this world
is just a simulation. Brendan then tries to see
doctor Roland, but he is too busy at the time.
The next day, Brendan tries to see him again.
There the two of them have a chat about Roland's
research. The doctor explains that his research
shows that the universe is a computer simulation
designed for an unknown purpose. The simulation
then creates new simulations with a different
version of the story every second. The Mandela
effect experienced by Brendan is a form of bug,
or a mix between the current simulation and
other simulations. That's what causes life
to go wrong. From Roland's explanation, Brendan
also concludes that if a program forms this world,
he could change the program by using script
coding, so that the world runs properly
without any bugs. But it looks like he can't
do that if he only uses an ordinary computer.
Doctor Roland also agrees that they can't change
the world with just an ordinary computer with
very low specifications. Roland then shows Brendan
that he and his team have made the first quantum
computer stored in one university. Doctor Roland
then explains that there's a possibility that
Brendan's program could be run using the quantum
computer. Brendan then decides to look for books
on quantum computer programming and start coding
scripts based on them. He also combines some of
his game programming code with quantum code
so that he manages to create a new script.
The next day, Brendan is surprised by the presence
of Sam, who is already at their house. At first,
he thinks that it is just his imagination, but
in the end, he believes that he is the one who
brings Sam back from the parallel world. Without
wasting time, Brendan then takes advantage of
it by having fun with his daughter. Brendan is
happy because he manages to shift the story of
Sam's death with another parallel version. But
at that time, Brendan begins to feel strange
about claire's behavior. He realizes that in the
parallel version he sees now, Sam is still alive,
but claire becomes a very stressed woman.
Suddenly, Brendan goes straight to Doctor Rolland,
but he is shocked when he hears the news that
Rolland committed suicide two months ago.
He feels that the script he entered
cause an extraordinary Mandela effect.
Realizing a bug in the script, Brendan immediately
decides to make a coding script to run the command
to reinstall the universe. The re-installation
aims to make the universe runs normally without
any bugs like the Mandela effect. Brendan doubts
the script; he is worried that the universe would
be destroyed and could not be re-created.
But for the sake of his daughter and wife,
Brendan decides to go to the facility where the
quantum computer is and then start entering his
coding script. Brendan manages to run his script,
and the quantum computer then shows signs of
reaction. Brendan immediately rushes away, but he
sees all the cars in the parking lot are missing.
On the bus, he sees that everyone is starting
to glitch. He sees the buildings also glitch.
Brendan then goes to see his family, and he sees
that the situation has gone awry. He sees his wife
glitches, and the building turns dark. In the
end, he sees two moons colliding, and finally,
the whole universe disappears into the darkness.
A moment later, Brendan's script suddenly runs
again, and the world began to re-form. Planets,
microbes, viruses, sea animals, humans,
and entire cities are now back to normal without
any other glitches, including the Mandela Effect.
Then the scene returns when Brendan, Claire, and
also Sam are at the beach. When Sam goes looking
for snails, Brendan calls Sam and tells her to
leave the Curious George doll, which looks like
it doesn't have a tail anymore. Finally, as Sam
goes looking for snails, Brendan keeps an eye on
his daughter. And the movie ends.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications and leave a like to help
the channel out. Thank you for watching.